h1. This project is DEPRECATED

%{color:red}It has been rewritten in Ruby, please see the following projects:%

http://github.com/opscode/omnibus-ruby
http://github.com/opscode/omnibus-chef
http://github.com/opscode/omnibus-software

h2. Introduction

omnibus helps you build self-installing, full-stack software builds.  For
example, we want to distribute the Chef client pre-bundled with its
dependencies: ruby, required gems, etc.  The result is a single installable
shell-script that can be executed on the client side, installing Chef, and
configuring it.

omnibus starts with the idea of a "project", which is comprised of a name,
version, and a build order.  The build order references various "software"
packages, which are compiled and installed to a specific path on the
filesystem. (For the chef-full project, this would be /opt/opscode).

h2. Using omnibus

To start using omnibus, you need a few dependencies:

* Java - either the Sun JDK, or the Open JDK
* Leiningen
* Your operating systems base build utilities - gcc, autoconf, etc.

To install Leiningen, follow the instructions here: http://github.com/technomancy/leiningen

Once you have Leiningen installed, run:

$ lein deps

From the top of the omnibus source tree.

To start a build:
(make sure the project includes the 'prep' step which will create the appropriate directories)

$ lein repl
omnibus.core=> (build-fat-binary "chef-full")

The results will be in ./pkg when the build is complete.

h2. Adding software to omnibus

To add new software to omnibus, you want to extract it and commit the source in the './source' directory.  Then add a configuration to config/software.  For example, to build gdbm:

  1. Download the source for gdbm-1.8.3
  2. Unpacked it in ./source
  3. Removed the tarball
  4. Added the following configuration in config/software/gdbm.clj

bc. (software "gdbm" :source "gdbm-1.8.3"
                 :steps [["./configure" "--prefix=/opt/opscode/embedded"]
                         (if (is-os? "darwin") ["perl" "-pi" "-e" "s/BINOWN = bin/BINOWN = root/g" "Makefile"])
                         (if (is-os? "darwin") ["perl" "-pi" "-e" "s/BINGRP = bin/BINGRP = wheel/g" "Makefile"])
                         ["make"]
                         ["sudo" "make" "install"]])

The :source field should be the name of the directory created by unpacking the tarball.  The steps are a vector of vectors, each of which corresponds to a build step.  These steps are passed directly to clojure.java.sh/sh, which will execute them directly. You can use two handy functions to make the build be different based on operating system or machine architecture: is-os? and is-machine?.

h2. Adding software to a project

In config/projects, you will find the actual project definitions themselves.  These contain a name for the project, a version number, and the build order.  For the chef client:

bc. (project
  "chef-full"
  "0.9.8"
  [ "zlib" "libiconv" "db" "gdbm" "ncurses" "openssl" "libxml2" "libxslt" "ree" "rubygems" "rsync" "chef" ])

The build order will run in order.

Enjoy!

h2. The full build process

If you want to kick off a full build, the easiest way is with:

bc. $ sudo lein run --project-name "chef-full" --bucket-name FULL_STACK --s3-access-key "ACCESS_KEY" --s3-secret-key "SECRET_KEY"

The resulting build artifact will be dropped off in the S3 bucket named above. If you want to submit a build to us, drop it off in your own bucket, and let us know where and how to test the final product.

For Windows the enclosed PowerShell script takes care of writing out the correct chef-solo json file nad executing the build
via chef-solo.

bc. powershell C:\omnibus\build-omnibus.ps1 "chef-client" "S3_BUCKET_NAME" "ACCESS_KEY" "SECRET_KEY"

h2. Operating System Prep

h3. Fedora 15

bc. yum update -y
yum install -y gcc gcc-c++ kernel-devel make autoconf flex bison git java-1.6.0-openjdk java-1.6.0-openjdk-devel ruby ruby-libs ruby-devel ruby-docs ruby-ri ruby-irb ruby-rdoc ruby-mode rubygems rpm-build libxml2 libxml2-devel libxslt libxslt-devel wget automake help2man libtool gettext texinfo which
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
wget https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. SL 6

bc. yum update -y
yum install -y gcc gcc-c++ kernel-devel make autoconf flex bison git java-1.6.0-openjdk java-1.6.0-openjdk-devel ruby ruby-libs ruby-devel ruby-docs ruby-ri ruby-irb ruby-rdoc ruby-mode rubygems rpm-build libxml2 libxml2-devel libxslt libxslt-devel wget automake help2man libtool gettext texinfo
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
wget https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. CentOS 5

bc. wget http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/5/i386/epel-release-5-4.noarch.rpm
rpm -Uvh epel-release-5-4.noarch.rpm
yum update -y
yum install -y gcc44 gcc-c++44 gcc gcc-c++ kernel-devel make autoconf flex bison git java-1.6.0-openjdk java-1.6.0-openjdk-devel ruby ruby-libs ruby-devel ruby-docs ruby-ri ruby-irb ruby-rdoc ruby-mode rubygems rpm-build libxml2 libxml2-devel libxslt libxslt-devel wget automake help2man libtool gettext texinfo
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. Debian 6

bc. apt-get update -y
apt-get -y install build-essential binutils-doc autoconf flex bison git-core openjdk-6-jdk default-jdk ruby ruby1.8 ruby1.8-dev rdoc1.8 irb1.8 ri1.8 libopenssl-ruby1.8 rubygems libtool dpkg-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1.1 libxslt1-dev help2man gettext
update-java-alternatives -s java-6-openjdk
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
ln -s /var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/* /usr/local/bin
wget https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. Ubuntu 10.04

bc. apt-get update -y
apt-get -y install build-essential binutils-doc autoconf flex bison git-core openjdk-6-jdk default-jdk ruby ruby1.8 ruby1.8-dev rdoc1.8 irb1.8 ri1.8 libopenssl-ruby1.8 rubygems libtool dpkg-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1.1 libxslt1-dev help2man gettext texinfo
update-java-alternatives -s java-6-openjdk
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
ln -s /var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/* /usr/local/bin
wget https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. Ubuntu 11.04

bc. apt-get update -y
apt-get -y install build-essential binutils-doc autoconf flex bison git-core openjdk-6-jdk default-jdk ruby ruby1.8 ruby1.8-dev rdoc1.8 irb1.8 ri1.8 libopenssl-ruby1.8 rubygems libtool dpkg-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1.1 libxslt1-dev help2man gettext texinfo
update-java-alternatives -s java-6-openjdk
gem install fpm ohai --no-rdoc --no-ri
ln -s /var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/* /usr/local/bin
wget https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard)

bc. # install Xcode
# install Java
# install git - http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/
curl https://raw.github.com/technomancy/leiningen/stable/bin/lein > lein
sudo mkdir /usr/local/bin/lein && sudo mv lein /usr/local/bin && sudo chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
lein self-install
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. Joyent Smartmachine

bc. pkgin up
pkgin in autoconf-2.68 gtexinfo bison flex
wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. OpenIndiana 148

bc. #!/bin/bash
# Notes
# pkg:/developer/gcc-3 is required over gcc-43, as Ruby was built with gcc3.
# Ruby build requires the same compiler to build extensions as was used to build
# Ruby itself.
# Need to use /opt/opscode/embedded/bin/autoconf?
# ln -s /usr/bin/automake-110 /usr/bin/automake
pkg install pkg:/developer/build/autoconf \
pkg:/developer/build/automake-110 \
pkg:/developer/build/gnu-make \
pkg:/developer/build/libtool \
pkg:/developer/build/make \
pkg:/developer/gcc-3
pkg:/developer/java/jdk \
pkg:/developer/lexer/flex \
pkg:/developer/library/lint \
pkg:/developer/linker \
pkg:/developer/macro/cpp \
pkg:/developer/object-file \
pkg:/developer/parser/bison \
pkg:/developer/versioning/git \
pkg:/file/gnu-coreutils \
pkg:/library/libxml2 \
pkg:/library/libxslt \
pkg:/ruby-dev \
pkg:/runtime/ruby-18 \
pkg:/system/header \
pkg:/system/library/math \
pkg:/system/library/math/header-math \
pkg:/system/xopen/xcu4 \
pkg:/text/gnu-gettext \
pkg:/text/texinfo \
pkg:/web/wget \
pkg:/compatibility/ucb \
pkg:/text/gnu-sed
gem update
gem install json_pure
mv /var/ruby/1.8/gem_home/gems/json-1.4.6 /tmp ; ln -s /var/ruby/1.8/gem_home/gems/json-1.5.1 /var/ruby/1.8/gem_home/gems/json-1.4.6
gem install ohai -v=0.5.8
gem install fpm

h3. FreeBSD 8.2

bc. portsnap fetch update
cd /usr/ports/ports-mgmt/portupgrade && make && make install # Be sure that BATCH=yes
portupgrade -a -m BATCH=yes # Upgrade all ports
portinstall lang/python26 devel/autoconf textproc/flex devel/bison devel/git java/openjdk6 lang/ruby19 devel/gmake
gem update
gem install ohai
gem install fpm
wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen/raw/stable/bin/lein && mv lein /usr/local/bin && chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/lein
git clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git
cd omnibus
mkdir build
lein deps

h3. Windows

Run in PowerShell 2.0+.  "*Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned*" must be set on the target machine if run as a 'ps1' script (vs pasted into PowerShell).

The chef-solo based build process has been tested on under Ruby 1.8.7 and Chef Solo 0.10.4.

bc.. $client = new-object System.Net.WebClient

# download/install Git
$client.DownloadFile("http://msysgit.googlecode.com/files/Git-1.7.6-preview20110708.exe","$ENV:TEMP\gitinstaller.exe")
Start-Process -FilePath "$ENV:TEMP\gitinstaller.exe" '/verysilent /dir="C:\git"' -Wait
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable( "Path", "$ENV:PATH;C:\git\cmd", [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine )

# download/install Ruby
$client.DownloadFile("http://files.rubyforge.vm.bytemark.co.uk/rubyinstaller/rubyinstaller-1.8.7-p334.exe","$ENV:TEMP\rubyinstaller.exe")
Start-Process -FilePath "$ENV:TEMP\rubyinstaller.exe" '/verysilent /dir="C:\ruby" /tasks="assocfiles,modpath"' -Wait

# add Ruby and Git to the PATH and persist it
$ENV:PATH = "$ENV:PATH;C:\ruby\bin;C:\git\cmd"
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("PATH", $ENV:PATH, "Machine")

# download/install Ruby DevKit
$client.DownloadFile("http://cloud.github.com/downloads/oneclick/rubyinstaller/DevKit-tdm-32-4.5.1-20101214-1400-sfx.exe","$ENV:TEMP\rubydevkit.exe")
New-Item C:\DevKit -type directory
Copy-Item $ENV:TEMP\rubydevkit.exe c:\DevKit
Start-Process -FilePath "C:\DevKit\rubydevkit.exe" '-y' -Wait
Start-Process -FilePath "ruby.exe" 'C:\DevKit\dk.rb init' -Wait
Start-Process -FilePath "ruby.exe" 'C:\DevKit\dk.rb install' -Wait

# install required gems
Start-Process -FilePath "gem" 'install win32-api win32-service --platform=mswin32 --no-rdoc --no-ri' -Wait
Start-Process -FilePath "gem" 'install win32-open3 rdp-ruby-wmi windows-api windows-pr win32-process --no-rdoc --no-ri' -Wait
Start-Process -FilePath "gem" 'install chef -v 0.10.4 --no-rdoc --no-ri --verbose' -Wait

# check out omnibus code
Start-Process -FilePath "git" 'clone git://github.com/opscode/omnibus.git C:\omnibus' -Wait -NoNewWindow

# this will allow execution of local scripts (.ps1 files)
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Force

h2. Bundled software and licensing

All software under the "source" directory retains the license by which it was originally distributed.
