= Description

Installs Homebrew and acts as the native package provider for Mac OS X using
Homebrew to install packages. See:

http://woss.name/2011/01/23/converging-your-home-directory-with-chef/

for additional background.

= Requirements

== Platform

This is only going to work on platforms that Homebrew supports which is, I
think, just Mac OS X. This cookbook has been tested on Mac OS X 10.6.6 with the
latest version of Homebrew (as of Mon 24 Jan 2011 at any rate!).

== Cookbooks

Shouldn't require any other cookbooks, though its operation may be greatly
enhanced by another cookbook I'm brewing that manages launchd. ;-)

= Resources and Providers

This cookbook provides a package provider called +homebrew_package+ which will
install/remove packages using Homebrew. This becomes the default provider for
+package+ if your platform is Mac OS X.

= Attributes

None.

= Usage

Just make sure that this cookbook is selected before you start installing
packages. You can add:

  include_recipe 'homebrew'

to all your recipes that install packages, or you can just make sure it's on
the run list somewhere early on. The bookbook itself ensures that Homebrew is
installed and up to date.

= License and Author

Author:: Graeme Mathieson (<mathie@woss.name>)

Copyright:: 2011, Graeme Mathieson

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
